It's important to understand common threat actors and their motivations.
This is a critical step in knowing your enemy.
cyber criminals are financially motivated attackers looking for a payday.
Fraud related attacks are an example,
and the impact is usually a financial loss to the company.
Hacktivists are a form of activists that
leverage hacks to advance political or social causes.
In this case, for example,
a group supporting Peter may hack
a fur coat manufacturer to disrupt the production of fur coats.
Next, nation-state actors seek to sabotage military or critical infrastructure.
They may engage in espionage or enable cyber warfare.
Script kiddies are inexperienced hackers
who use pre-packaged attacks for various reasons.
These days it's easy to purchase a hack kit, For example,
a ransomware attack kit can be purchased on the dark web for less than $50,
while the average payout for an attack in several $1000.
So you can even get different ransomware as a service packages,
with customer service support when you're launching your own attack.
Finally, cyber terrorists use violent and debilitating means
to further ideological goals stemming from domestic influences that could be political,
religious, social, racial, or environmental in nature.
Each of these attacks will target organizations for different reasons,
and that context is important to have as you prepare to assess the threat.